according to attachment Theory we're all
born with an instinct to form attachment
bonds with one or more significant
caregivers this instinct is embedded
into something called the attachment
system which helps regulate the child's
proximity to their caregiver during the
first few years of life the caregiver
functions as a secure base a stable and
attentive Foundation of care and
reassurance from which the infant or
young child can begin to explore their
world whenever things get too upsetting
the attachment system kicks in causing
the child to cry or cling to their
caregiver in order to reestablish the
feeling of Safety and Security